content/music/looptober-2022.md, before:

+++
title = "Looptober 2022"
description = "One tiny beat a day for all of October"
date = 2022-10-01

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Electronic", "Loops", "Work in Progress"]
+++

Looptober? Why not! I saw it mentioned somewhere, but I couldn’t really find any "rules" so I decided to interpret it literally. I’m creating one short loop a day for the month of October as a way of getting to know the Elektron Syntakt. Below are the fruits of that labor. 

Success-o-meter: ~`23`% done and names are getting weirder

NB: These are made to be played in a loop, but if you only want a quick peek they are still playable using the `:play` command.

PROTIP: The mute button only mutes when pressed, use it to add flair to your late night freestyle sessions.

S/NS: The loop players below doesn’t work in Safari and I have no clue why. The `:play` command works, though.

## 01 - Duckboy (86 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/01-duckboy.mp3") }}

## 02 - Grvyrdshft (72 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/02-grvyrdshft.mp3") }}

## 03 - Spacejoust (80 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/03-spacejoust.mp3") }}

## 04 - Cibercryme (89 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/04-cibercryme.mp3") }}

## 05 - Freakshow (75 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/05-freakshow.mp3") }}

## 06 - Ghoulsgrowl (75 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/06-ghoulsgrowl.mp3") }}

## 07 - Loungehounds (83 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/07-loungehounds.mp3") }}

Commit message:

Looptober: Add note for Safari users

content/music/looptober-2022.md, after:

+++
title = "Looptober 2022"
description = "One tiny beat a day for all of October"
date = 2022-10-01

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Electronic", "Loops", "Work in Progress"]
+++

Looptober? Why not! I saw it mentioned somewhere, but I couldn’t really find any "rules" so I decided to interpret it literally. I’m creating one short loop a day for the month of October as a way of getting to know the Elektron Syntakt. Below are the fruits of that labor. 

Success-o-meter: ~`23`% done and names are getting weirder

NB: These are made to be played in a loop, but if you only want a quick peek they are still playable using the `:play` command.

NB2: Safari users: If the play buttons don’t work, click "Safari" in the top menu, choose "Settings for spitlo.com", and in the window that appears, choose "Auto-Play: Allow All Auto-Play".

PROTIP: The mute button only mutes when pressed, use it to add flair to your late night freestyle sessions.

## 01 - Duckboy (86 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/01-duckboy.mp3") }}

## 02 - Grvyrdshft (72 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/02-grvyrdshft.mp3") }}

## 03 - Spacejoust (80 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/03-spacejoust.mp3") }}

## 04 - Cibercryme (89 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/04-cibercryme.mp3") }}

## 05 - Freakshow (75 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/05-freakshow.mp3") }}

## 06 - Ghoulsgrowl (75 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/06-ghoulsgrowl.mp3") }}

## 07 - Loungehounds (83 BPM)

{{ looper(filepath="/audio/looptober/2022/07-loungehounds.mp3") }}
