content/music/stromata.md, before:

+++
title = "Stromata"
description = "A match of musical tennis between me and kryptho"
date = 2021-03-26

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Collaboration", "Electronic", "Work in Progress"]

[extra]
content_class = "stromata"
+++

Stromata is a collaboration born out of boredom. It’s a form of musical tennis where me and _kryptho_ sends a piece of music back and forth.

## Rules

Each iteration is a modified version of the previous version. The rules are pretty lax, basically:

  1. You must use the file you receive in some way
  2. You must return a consistently and predictably named, playable file

Other than that, anything goes. Examples of possible modifications (on a scale from pedestrian to hard core):

- [ ] Convert to ogg, then back to original format
- [ ] Play it on your computer, record it on your phone
- [ ] Add harmonica
- [ ] Add harmonica and lyrics
- [ ] Play it on your computer, record it to your phone while playing harmonica. Save as ogg
- [ ] Record the song to cassette, take the tape out and cut it to pieces. Glue it together again and put it back into the cassette. Record it (opionally saving it as ogg).
- [ ] Print the file. Keep only the pages whose numbers are included in a fibonacci sequence (you will need an extra copy of page one). Scan these pages. Somehow make a song from that.
- [ ] Using a magnetoencephalography helmet, record your reactions to the song. Convert those readings to frequencies. Convert the frequencies to actual tones. Record the tones. Add reverb.

There are a lot of other modifications that are also possible/desirable.

The first version, `a-000.wav` was sent on 2021-02-20 at 14:03 CET.

## Files

| File       | Sent             | By       | Duration | Snippet (size)                                                  |
|:-----------|:-----------------|:---------|:---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------|
| a-000.wav  | 2021-02-20 14:03 | spitlo   |    03:40 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-000.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-001.wav  | 2021-02-20 17:38 | kryptho  |    03:25 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-001.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-002.wav  | 2021-02-21 15:51 | spitlo   |    03:37 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-002.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-003.flac | 2021-02-21 19:51 | kryptho  |    03:40 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-003.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-004.wav  | 2021-02-24 16:27 | spitlo   |    04:12 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-004.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-005.flac | 2021-02-24 20:41 | kryptho  |    04:21 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-005.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-006.wav  | 2021-03-01 16:49 | spitlo   |    04:19 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-006.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-007.flac | 2021-03-02 17:38 | kryptho  |    04:23 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-007.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-008.wav  | 2021-03-10 15:59 | spitlo   |    04:46 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-008.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-009.flac | 2021-03-24 10:50 | kryptho  |    03:58 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-009.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-010.wav  | 2021-04-06 20:53 | spitlo   |    05:47 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-010.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-011.flac | 2021-04-07 18:56 | kryptho  |    03:56 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-011.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-012.wav  | 2021-04-21 21:15 | spitlo   |    04:23 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-012.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-013.flac | 2021-05-31 19:19 | kryptho  |    03:29 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-013.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-014.wav  | 2021-07-06 22:47 | spitlo   |    03:28 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-014.mp3) (722 KB) |

Commit message:

Stromata: Add first file of B Strain, started 2022-01-01

content/music/stromata.md, after:

+++
title = "Stromata"
description = "A match of musical tennis between me and kryptho"
date = 2021-03-26

[taxonomies]
categories = ["Collaboration", "Electronic", "Work in Progress"]

[extra]
content_class = "stromata"
+++

Stromata is a collaboration born out of boredom. It’s a form of musical tennis where me and _kryptho_ sends a piece of music back and forth.

## Rules

Each iteration is a modified version of the previous version. The rules are pretty lax, basically:

  1. You must use the file you receive in some way
  2. You must return a consistently and predictably named, playable file

Other than that, anything goes. Examples of possible modifications (on a scale from pedestrian to hard core):

- [ ] Convert to ogg, then back to original format
- [ ] Play it on your computer, record it on your phone
- [ ] Add harmonica
- [ ] Add harmonica and lyrics
- [ ] Play it on your computer, record it to your phone while playing harmonica. Save as ogg
- [ ] Record the song to cassette, take the tape out and cut it to pieces. Glue it together again and put it back into the cassette. Record it (opionally saving it as ogg).
- [ ] Print the file. Keep only the pages whose numbers are included in a fibonacci sequence (you might use an extra copy of page one). Scan these pages. Somehow make a song from that.
- [ ] Using a magnetoencephalography helmet, record your reactions to the song. Convert those readings to frequencies. Convert the frequencies to actual tones. Record the tones. Add reverb.

There are a lot of other modifications that are also possible/desirable.

The first version, `a-000.wav` was sent on 2021-02-20 at 14:03 CET.

## Files

### B Strain, 2022

| File       | Sent             | By       | Duration | Snippet (size)                                                  |
|:-----------|:-----------------|:---------|:---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------|
| b-000.flac | 2022-01-01 11:25 | kryptho  |    03:41 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/b-000.mp3) (721 KB) |


### A Strain, 2021

| File       | Sent             | By       | Duration | Snippet (size)                                                  |
|:-----------|:-----------------|:---------|:---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------|
| a-000.wav  | 2021-02-20 14:03 | spitlo   |    03:40 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-000.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-001.wav  | 2021-02-20 17:38 | kryptho  |    03:25 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-001.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-002.wav  | 2021-02-21 15:51 | spitlo   |    03:37 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-002.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-003.flac | 2021-02-21 19:51 | kryptho  |    03:40 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-003.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-004.wav  | 2021-02-24 16:27 | spitlo   |    04:12 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-004.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-005.flac | 2021-02-24 20:41 | kryptho  |    04:21 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-005.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-006.wav  | 2021-03-01 16:49 | spitlo   |    04:19 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-006.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-007.flac | 2021-03-02 17:38 | kryptho  |    04:23 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-007.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-008.wav  | 2021-03-10 15:59 | spitlo   |    04:46 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-008.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-009.flac | 2021-03-24 10:50 | kryptho  |    03:58 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-009.mp3) (722 KB) |
| a-010.wav  | 2021-04-06 20:53 | spitlo   |    05:47 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-010.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-011.flac | 2021-04-07 18:56 | kryptho  |    03:56 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-011.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-012.wav  | 2021-04-21 21:15 | spitlo   |    04:23 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-012.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-013.flac | 2021-05-31 19:19 | kryptho  |    03:29 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-013.mp3) (721 KB) |
| a-014.wav  | 2021-07-06 22:47 | spitlo   |    03:28 | [mp3](https://files.mefirst.se/stromata/mp3/a-014.mp3) (722 KB) |
