content/code/karakter.md, before:

+++
title = "Karakter"
description = "Add a little character to your text"
date = 2021-04-06

[taxonomies]
technologies = ["Bash", "Nim", "V"]
categories = ["Work in Progress"]

[extra]
repo = "https://github.com/spitlo/karakter"
first_commit = 2021-04-01
+++

Karakter is a Bash script that takes text input (either from a pipe, as plain text arguments or as a file) and adds a little character to the text by substituting visually similar glyphs for letters a-z and A-Z. I wrote it because I wanted to come up with a pretty basic cli that I could then convert to other languages that I’ve been wanting to try out, like [Ada](https://www.adaic.org/) and [Fortran](https://fortran-lang.org/). I encourage everyone to not hold their breath for that though -- at the moment there is a working version in [V](https://vlang.io) and work-in-progress versions in [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/) and [Zig](https://ziglang.org/).

There is a default style that’s sort of a kitchen sink mix of very different looking glyphs, and then there’s three less eclectic styles, `¢џБ≡┎pμ∩κ`, `ƒάїгψłάľє` and `LŌŪĐMŌŪṪH`.

All glyphs are chosen from [this list](https://github.com/ehmicky/cross-platform-terminal-characters) of "All the characters that work on most terminals" so they should work on most terminals.

There are some other flags, but the project readme has more information.

## Usage examples

Generate a mildly elvish version of your name for an email signature using the Bash version:

```bash
bash/karakter --md --ft John Doe
```

Turn A Tale of Two Cities into a cyberpunk novel using the V version and read it comfortably in your terminal:

```bash
curl https://www.gutenberg.org/files/98/98-0.txt | sed 's/one thousand seven/two thousand seven/g' | tr a-z A-Z | v/karakter -o md -s cp | less
```

## Output examples

### Input text

```txt
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way – in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level low, default style

```txt
It ŵas thє beșt оf timєs, їt was thє worst of times, it waș the αge of wisdom, it was the ąge of foolїshness, it was the epoch of belief, iț ώas łhe epо¢ђ of incredulity, it шas the seąson of Light, it was the seasфη of Đarkness, it was the șpring of hope, it waș țhe winter of despair, we ђαd everything beforє us, we haď nothing before us, ŵe werє a11 going dire¢t to Heaven, we werє all going dїrёct tћe other way – in shoѓt, the pєriod was so fаr 1ike the present period, that some of its nфisiest authoгiłies iηsisted оn ițs bєing recёived, for gooď оr for evїl, in țhe șuperlative degгeё of comparison only.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level medium, cyberpunk style

```txt
It ш@s the bєsŁ of tim≡$, it w@s tHe шоrst of Łim≡$, it шas ŁH≡ аg≡ o⌠ w¡$ďøm, ī┪ ш@s thє ag≡ оf fo●lishπes$, iŁ шas Łhe ≡pø¢H ●f belıef, iŁ ша$ tHє ep●ch о⌠ :nc┍єďulity, īŁ wα$ ┪h≡ $ea$o∩ оf Ľi9ht, īŁ w@$ ŁHe sє@$■Π of Daяκπє$$, :Ł wα$ tHє $p┎īn9 о⌠ høp≡, iŁ ш@s tHe wint≡r of ďєsp@ıя, шє Hαd e▼eгy┪h¡∩g bє⌠оre u$, we Hαď ∩o┪H¡Πg 6єfoгє u$, шe шe┎e αll go¡π9 ďi┎≡ct ┪o He@▼en, we шє┍e a1l 9■iΠg ďir≡ct ŁHe o┪her ш@џ – ¡n $Hort, thє p≡г¡●ď was $o fаr lıke the p┎≡$e∩t pe┍ioď, tHat s●mє ■f it$ πoisie$┪ aμ┪Hor:t:≡s ins:steď ●n its b≡ın9 гec≡ived, fø┎ 9ø●d оr ⌠●r ≡▼ı1, in Łh≡ sup≡гlα┪īvє ďegr≡є о⌠ ¢ompaгıson o∩1y.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level high, fairytale style

```txt
Ϊṫ шάș ṫђё вєșṫ ºḟ łΐṁєș, ΐł шάș łћё ώºѓșṫ фƒ țΐṁēș, ΐț ώάș ṫђё ąġē σƒ шΐșδσṁ, ΐṫ шάș ṫђє ąġё σƒ ƒооļїșћηєșș, їł шąș łђё єpºςђ ºƒ Бēļїēƒ, їṫ шąș ṫћё єpоςђ фḟ їņςѓєδΰľїłψ, їł ŵąș łђē șєąșфņ фḟ Ļїġђț, ΐł ŵąș łђё șёąșфņ ºḟ Ďąѓkņēșș, їł ώάș țђē șpгїηġ фḟ ђºpē, їṫ ŵąș ṫђє ŵїņțєѓ σḟ ďєșpαΐг, ώё ћαḋ ēνёѓџłћΐñġ вēƒσгє ΰș, шё ђάđ ησṫђΐηġ ḃёƒºѓё υș, ώё ŵєгē αļľ ġºїņġ ďΐѓєςł țф нєάνєη, ώє шєѓē άľļ ġфїņġ ďΐѓєςț ṫћē фṫћёг шąψ – ΐņ șћσѓṫ, ṫђē pёѓΐºđ ŵάș șº ƒάѓ ľΐkē țђё pгёșєñṫ pёѓїоδ, ṫћάł șºṁє оḟ ΐțș ñºΐșїєșł ąΰțћфѓїṫΐєș ΐñșїșłēď ºņ ΐłș Бєїņġ ѓēςёΐνēđ, ḟог ġºфđ σѓ ƒºг ēνΐľ, їη ṫђє șΰpєѓľάṫΐνē δєġѓєё ºḟ ςºṁpαгΐșоñ оņľψ.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level high, loudmouth style

```txt
ĪṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ḂĒȘṪ ŌF ṪIMĒȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ШŌŔȘṪ ŌF ṪIMĒȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĀGĒ ŌF ШIȘĐŌM, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĀGĒ ŌF FŌŌLIȘHПĒȘȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĒРŌČH ŌF ḂĒLIĒF, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĒРŌČH ŌF IПČŔĒĐŪLIṪЏ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘĒĀȘŌП ŌF LIGHṪ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘĒĀȘŌП ŌF ĐĀŔЌПĒȘȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘРŔIПG ŌF HŌРĒ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ШIПṪĒŔ ŌF ĐĒȘРĀIŔ, ШĒ HĀĐ ĒVĒŔЏṪHIПG ḂĒFŌŔĒ ŪȘ, ШĒ HĀĐ ПŌṪHIПG ḂĒFŌŔĒ ŪȘ, ШĒ ШĒŔĒ ĀLL GŌIПG ĐIŔĒČṪ ṪŌ ĦĒĀVĒП, ШĒ ШĒŔĒ ĀLL GŌIПG ĐIŔĒČṪ ṪHĒ ŌṪHĒŔ ШĀЏ – IП ȘHŌŔṪ, ṪHĒ РĒŔIŌĐ ШĀȘ ȘŌ FĀŔ LIЌĒ ṪHĒ РŔĒȘĒПṪ РĒŔIŌĐ, ṪHĀṪ ȘŌMĒ ŌF IṪȘ ПŌIȘIĒȘṪ ĀŪṪHŌŔIṪIĒȘ IПȘIȘṪĒĐ ŌП IṪȘ ḂĒIПG ŔĒČĒIVĒĐ, FŌŔ GŌŌĐ ŌŔ FŌŔ ĒVIL, IП ṪHĒ ȘŪРĒŔLĀṪIVĒ ĐĒGŔĒĒ ŌF ČŌMРĀŔIȘŌП ŌПLЏ. 
```

Commit message:

Show first commit message on commit date hover

content/code/karakter.md, after:

+++
title = "Karakter"
description = "Add a little character to your text"
date = 2021-04-06

[taxonomies]
technologies = ["Bash", "Nim", "V"]
categories = ["Work in Progress"]

[extra]
repo = "https://github.com/spitlo/karakter"
first_commit_time = 2021-04-01
first_commit_message = "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times..."
+++

Karakter is a Bash script that takes text input (either from a pipe, as plain text arguments or as a file) and adds a little character to the text by substituting visually similar glyphs for letters a-z and A-Z. I wrote it because I wanted to come up with a pretty basic cli that I could then convert to other languages that I’ve been wanting to try out, like [Ada](https://www.adaic.org/) and [Fortran](https://fortran-lang.org/). I encourage everyone to not hold their breath for that though -- at the moment there is a working version in [V](https://vlang.io) and work-in-progress versions in [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/) and [Zig](https://ziglang.org/).

There is a default style that’s sort of a kitchen sink mix of very different looking glyphs, and then there’s three less eclectic styles, `¢џБ≡┎pμ∩κ`, `ƒάїгψłάľє` and `LŌŪĐMŌŪṪH`.

All glyphs are chosen from [this list](https://github.com/ehmicky/cross-platform-terminal-characters) of "All the characters that work on most terminals" so they should work on most terminals.

There are some other flags, but the project readme has more information.

## Usage examples

Generate a mildly elvish version of your name for an email signature using the Bash version:

```bash
bash/karakter --md --ft John Doe
```

Turn A Tale of Two Cities into a cyberpunk novel using the V version and read it comfortably in your terminal:

```bash
curl https://www.gutenberg.org/files/98/98-0.txt | sed 's/one thousand seven/two thousand seven/g' | tr a-z A-Z | v/karakter -o md -s cp | less
```

## Output examples

### Input text

```txt
It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, it was the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the winter of despair, we had everything before us, we had nothing before us, we were all going direct to Heaven, we were all going direct the other way – in short, the period was so far like the present period, that some of its noisiest authorities insisted on its being received, for good or for evil, in the superlative degree of comparison only.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level low, default style

```txt
It ŵas thє beșt оf timєs, їt was thє worst of times, it waș the αge of wisdom, it was the ąge of foolїshness, it was the epoch of belief, iț ώas łhe epо¢ђ of incredulity, it шas the seąson of Light, it was the seasфη of Đarkness, it was the șpring of hope, it waș țhe winter of despair, we ђαd everything beforє us, we haď nothing before us, ŵe werє a11 going dire¢t to Heaven, we werє all going dїrёct tћe other way – in shoѓt, the pєriod was so fаr 1ike the present period, that some of its nфisiest authoгiłies iηsisted оn ițs bєing recёived, for gooď оr for evїl, in țhe șuperlative degгeё of comparison only.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level medium, cyberpunk style

```txt
It ш@s the bєsŁ of tim≡$, it w@s tHe шоrst of Łim≡$, it шas ŁH≡ аg≡ o⌠ w¡$ďøm, ī┪ ш@s thє ag≡ оf fo●lishπes$, iŁ шas Łhe ≡pø¢H ●f belıef, iŁ ша$ tHє ep●ch о⌠ :nc┍єďulity, īŁ wα$ ┪h≡ $ea$o∩ оf Ľi9ht, īŁ w@$ ŁHe sє@$■Π of Daяκπє$$, :Ł wα$ tHє $p┎īn9 о⌠ høp≡, iŁ ш@s tHe wint≡r of ďєsp@ıя, шє Hαd e▼eгy┪h¡∩g bє⌠оre u$, we Hαď ∩o┪H¡Πg 6єfoгє u$, шe шe┎e αll go¡π9 ďi┎≡ct ┪o He@▼en, we шє┍e a1l 9■iΠg ďir≡ct ŁHe o┪her ш@џ – ¡n $Hort, thє p≡г¡●ď was $o fаr lıke the p┎≡$e∩t pe┍ioď, tHat s●mє ■f it$ πoisie$┪ aμ┪Hor:t:≡s ins:steď ●n its b≡ın9 гec≡ived, fø┎ 9ø●d оr ⌠●r ≡▼ı1, in Łh≡ sup≡гlα┪īvє ďegr≡є о⌠ ¢ompaгıson o∩1y.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level high, fairytale style

```txt
Ϊṫ шάș ṫђё вєșṫ ºḟ łΐṁєș, ΐł шάș łћё ώºѓșṫ фƒ țΐṁēș, ΐț ώάș ṫђё ąġē σƒ шΐșδσṁ, ΐṫ шάș ṫђє ąġё σƒ ƒооļїșћηєșș, їł шąș łђё єpºςђ ºƒ Бēļїēƒ, їṫ шąș ṫћё єpоςђ фḟ їņςѓєδΰľїłψ, їł ŵąș łђē șєąșфņ фḟ Ļїġђț, ΐł ŵąș łђё șёąșфņ ºḟ Ďąѓkņēșș, їł ώάș țђē șpгїηġ фḟ ђºpē, їṫ ŵąș ṫђє ŵїņțєѓ σḟ ďєșpαΐг, ώё ћαḋ ēνёѓџłћΐñġ вēƒσгє ΰș, шё ђάđ ησṫђΐηġ ḃёƒºѓё υș, ώё ŵєгē αļľ ġºїņġ ďΐѓєςł țф нєάνєη, ώє шєѓē άľļ ġфїņġ ďΐѓєςț ṫћē фṫћёг шąψ – ΐņ șћσѓṫ, ṫђē pёѓΐºđ ŵάș șº ƒάѓ ľΐkē țђё pгёșєñṫ pёѓїоδ, ṫћάł șºṁє оḟ ΐțș ñºΐșїєșł ąΰțћфѓїṫΐєș ΐñșїșłēď ºņ ΐłș Бєїņġ ѓēςёΐνēđ, ḟог ġºфđ σѓ ƒºг ēνΐľ, їη ṫђє șΰpєѓľάṫΐνē δєġѓєё ºḟ ςºṁpαгΐșоñ оņľψ.
```

### Output text, obfuscation level high, loudmouth style

```txt
ĪṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ḂĒȘṪ ŌF ṪIMĒȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ШŌŔȘṪ ŌF ṪIMĒȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĀGĒ ŌF ШIȘĐŌM, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĀGĒ ŌF FŌŌLIȘHПĒȘȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĒРŌČH ŌF ḂĒLIĒF, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ĒРŌČH ŌF IПČŔĒĐŪLIṪЏ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘĒĀȘŌП ŌF LIGHṪ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘĒĀȘŌП ŌF ĐĀŔЌПĒȘȘ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ȘРŔIПG ŌF HŌРĒ, IṪ ШĀȘ ṪHĒ ШIПṪĒŔ ŌF ĐĒȘРĀIŔ, ШĒ HĀĐ ĒVĒŔЏṪHIПG ḂĒFŌŔĒ ŪȘ, ШĒ HĀĐ ПŌṪHIПG ḂĒFŌŔĒ ŪȘ, ШĒ ШĒŔĒ ĀLL GŌIПG ĐIŔĒČṪ ṪŌ ĦĒĀVĒП, ШĒ ШĒŔĒ ĀLL GŌIПG ĐIŔĒČṪ ṪHĒ ŌṪHĒŔ ШĀЏ – IП ȘHŌŔṪ, ṪHĒ РĒŔIŌĐ ШĀȘ ȘŌ FĀŔ LIЌĒ ṪHĒ РŔĒȘĒПṪ РĒŔIŌĐ, ṪHĀṪ ȘŌMĒ ŌF IṪȘ ПŌIȘIĒȘṪ ĀŪṪHŌŔIṪIĒȘ IПȘIȘṪĒĐ ŌП IṪȘ ḂĒIПG ŔĒČĒIVĒĐ, FŌŔ GŌŌĐ ŌŔ FŌŔ ĒVIL, IП ṪHĒ ȘŪРĒŔLĀṪIVĒ ĐĒGŔĒĒ ŌF ČŌMРĀŔIȘŌП ŌПLЏ. 
```
